.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--
# nf-core/multiomicintegration pull request

Many thanks for contributing to nf-core/multiomicintegration!

Please fill in the appropriate checklist below (delete whatever is not relevant).
These are the most common things requested on pull requests (PRs).

Remember that PRs should be made against the dev branch, unless you're preparing a pipeline release.

Learn more about contributing: [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/nf-core/multiomicintegration/tree/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md)
-->

## PR checklist

- [ ] This comment contains a description of changes (with reason).
- [ ] If you've fixed a bug or added code that should be tested, add tests!
- [ ] If you've added a new tool - have you followed the pipeline conventions in the [contribution docs](https://github.com/nf-core/multiomicintegration/tree/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md)- [ ] If necessary, also make a PR on the nf-core/multiomicintegration _branch_ on the [nf-core/test-datasets](https://github.com/nf-core/test-datasets) repository.
- [ ] Make sure your code lints (`nf-core lint`).
- [ ] Ensure the test suite passes (`nextflow run . -profile test,docker --outdir <OUTDIR>`).
- [ ] Usage Documentation in `docs/usage.md` is updated.
- [ ] Output Documentation in `docs/output.md` is updated.
- [ ] `CHANGELOG.md` is updated.
- [ ] `README.md` is updated (including new tool citations and authors/contributors).

Commit message:

First major dev PR (#1)
* updated nextflow.config with pipeline rename to omicsgenetraitassociation

* Template update for nf-core/tools version 2.11.1

* added modules CMA, MMAP, and PASCAL

* fixed versions emit values for cma/main.nf and pascal/main.nf

* added when directives to cma/main.nf

* added MEA modules

* pipeline works from CMA to MEA

* added config for CMA and MEA configs in modules.config

* updated .gitignore to exclude downloaded singularity images and added new config file for testing cma + mea modules

* added temporary subworkflow CMA_SUBWORKFLOW which will later be modified to run CMA and MEA

* commented out workflow initialization and validation steps for testing

* pascal/main.nf edited to extract tarball as nextflow does not support s3 glob support

* fixed versions emit name

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--
# nf-core/omicsgenetraitassociation pull request

Many thanks for contributing to nf-core/omicsgenetraitassociation!

Please fill in the appropriate checklist below (delete whatever is not relevant).
These are the most common things requested on pull requests (PRs).

Remember that PRs should be made against the dev branch, unless you're preparing a pipeline release.

Learn more about contributing: [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/nf-core/omicsgenetraitassociation/tree/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md)
-->

## PR checklist

- [ ] This comment contains a description of changes (with reason).
- [ ] If you've fixed a bug or added code that should be tested, add tests!
- [ ] If you've added a new tool - have you followed the pipeline conventions in the [contribution docs](https://github.com/nf-core/omicsgenetraitassociation/tree/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [ ] If necessary, also make a PR on the nf-core/omicsgenetraitassociation _branch_ on the [nf-core/test-datasets](https://github.com/nf-core/test-datasets) repository.
- [ ] Make sure your code lints (`nf-core lint`).
- [ ] Ensure the test suite passes (`nextflow run . -profile test,docker --outdir <OUTDIR>`).
- [ ] Check for unexpected warnings in debug mode (`nextflow run . -profile debug,test,docker --outdir <OUTDIR>`).
- [ ] Usage Documentation in `docs/usage.md` is updated.
- [ ] Output Documentation in `docs/output.md` is updated.
- [ ] `CHANGELOG.md` is updated.
- [ ] `README.md` is updated (including new tool citations and authors/contributors).
